---
title: Week 12 - Building a VUI-controlled game
description: This week we cover a methodology for creating a game controlled via voice user interface
---

## Overview

- program a VUI 
- activity: build a VUI game 


## "Female" assistants

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gBlPxpaum6U" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### The Family Dog

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8QYDpbLQ-To" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Building out our voice user interfaces

### 1-shot utterance

A complete request.

```
Assistant, what's the weather report for tomorrow?
```

```
Assistant, add cat food to the grocery list.
```


### Basic VUI

[Hello World code - minimal VUI](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/voice-commands-starter?path=voice-commands.js%3A12%3A18)

[Purchase Facts](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/purchase-fact-vui?path=voice-commands.js%3A31%3A68)

### Activity: Building a VUI game

Today we'll be making a VUI game. Drawing on our previous experience throughout the semester to make text user interfaces, then graphic user interfaces, and now voice user interfaces students will work in teams to create a compelling game playable via voice user interface.

Categories:
- a quiz game
- a choose-your-own-adventure style branching narrative game
- a "facts" application
- a gambling game
- something else!

Process:

Talk. What are you interested in? What questions do you have? Can you come to an agreement on something you are excited about? What kinds of skills do you have and what will you need to learn?

What's your working process? (Suggestion: Do a flowchart first. Then create a spreadsheet of utterances)

Your final game must include:

- a playable game!
- an introduction
- "help"
- "credits" - listing everyone involved
- a way to reset - e.g. "start over"
- win/lose conditions
- suggestions for what to do in case the VUI doesn't understand what someone said

**Important: to be considered complete each student should include a link to the final project, list your name, and list your collaborators. Address: How does your program work? How did you work collaboratively? (What roles did people take, if any). What challenges did you find? And anything else about the process. 1 to 3 paragraphs**

## Homework

## Finish your collaborative VUI project

Due in two weeks! 

### Read

[What's it Like to Use a Screen Reader](https://knowbility.org/blog/2021/what-is-it-like-to-use-a-screen-reader)

[How to write inclusive, accessible digital products](https://uxdesign.cc/how-to-write-inclusive-accessible-digital-products-2f4b35ec59a2)

### Accessibility presentation

Please read the [Introduction to Web Accessibility](https://webaim.org/intro)

This reading focuses on: 

* People with Disabilities on the Web
* Implementing Web Accessibility 
* Principles of Accessible Design

Please pick a research topic of interest to you that relates to
accessibility and interface, broadly interpreted. Create a 3 - 5 minute
presentation, no more than 3 - 5 slides, to explain your topic and
relevant information.

Please pick a unique topic. Examples include:

- How People with Disabilities use the Web
- Designing for older users
- p5js and audio accessibility
- accessibility and the phone
- accessibility and interface in the car
- Best practices for web accessibility
- Experimental interfaces for accessibility
- Operating systems and accessibility
- Video game controllers for accessibility
- Autism-friendly apps
- Apple or Windows accessibility elements
- Design methodologies for working with accessibility issues
- Accessibility design for smart watches
- Critiques of social media sites for accessibility
- How to test whether your website is accessible
- Another topic distinct from the above

Please cite at least 2 sources for your information.
